README.md, before:

# Logic Simulator

An IDE for experimentation with Francis Stokes ([Low Level Javascript](https://www.youtube.com/c/LowLevelJavaScript/featured)) [Digital Circuit Simulator](https://github.com/LowLevelJavaScript/Digital-Logic-Simulator)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4541024/88268260-45b28480-cd26-11ea-8cfc-63bb8d2abe16.png)

## Installation

```bash
npm install
quasar dev
```

## Features

1. Micro-subset verilog-like DSL for coding the array of logic gates (Parsed using [Arcsecond.js](https://github.com/francisrstokes/arcsecond) of course!)
2. CodeMirror-based code editor with automatic linting/error reporting, smart indentation, code folding, hints
3. Visualisation of the generated gate array by hierachical table or a (experimental toy really) dagre graph
4. Testbench simulation with graphical trace output

## DSL

1. Modules define a group of gates (eg a logic chip) and the inputs and outputs (eg the pins) between modules

   ```verilog
     module MyModule(input A,
                     input B,
                     output Q)
       // gate, wire and instance statements here
     endmodule
   ```

2. Gates define a basic logic function, a unique identifier for this gate, and the inputs to the gate

   ```verilog
     wire myAndGate;
     and(myAndGate, A, B); // equivalent to myAndGate = A & B
   ```

3. Instances of gates define a namespaced copy of a module and the connections between the parent module and the instance module

   ```verilog
     MyModule m1(.A(parentVar1), .B(parentVar2), .Q(parentVar3))
   ```

4. All programs must have a "main" module which is automatically instanced and serves as the entry point.


    a) The main module automatically includes a "clock" input.

    b) The inputs to the main module will be external "control" gates eg buttons/sensors

5. The main module should include a testbench section to define the value of the control gates at different time points

   ```verilog
    test begin
        #00 {a=0, b=0};
        #05 {a=0, b=1};
        #10 {a=1, b=0};
        #15 {a=1, b=1};
    end
   ```

## TODO

1. More sample code circuits
2. Support bitwise statements to generate the logic gates (eg Q = (A & B) | ~C
3. Support truth tables to generate optimised logic gates
4. Support bit vectors

## Acknowledgements

1. [LowLevelJavascript Digital Circuit Simulator](https://www.youtube.com/c/LowLevelJavaScript)
2. [Arcsecond.js](https://github.com/francisrstokes/arcsecond)
3. [Quasar.dev](https://quasar.dev/)
4. [G6 Graph](https://g6.antv.vision/en/)
5. [CodeMirror](https://codemirror.net/)
6. [ChartJS](https://www.chartjs.org/)

Commit message:

Update readme TODO with progress

README.md, after:

# Logic Simulator

An IDE for experimentation with Francis Stokes ([Low Level Javascript](https://www.youtube.com/c/LowLevelJavaScript/featured)) [Digital Circuit Simulator](https://github.com/LowLevelJavaScript/Digital-Logic-Simulator)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4541024/88268260-45b28480-cd26-11ea-8cfc-63bb8d2abe16.png)

## Installation

```bash
npm install
quasar dev
```

## Features

1. Micro-subset verilog-like DSL for coding the array of logic gates (Parsed using [Arcsecond.js](https://github.com/francisrstokes/arcsecond) of course!)
2. CodeMirror-based code editor with automatic linting/error reporting, smart indentation, code folding, hints
3. Visualisation of the generated gate array by hierachical table or a (experimental toy really) dagre graph
4. Testbench simulation with graphical trace output

## DSL

1. Modules define a group of gates (eg a logic chip) and the inputs and outputs (eg the pins) between modules

   ```verilog
     module MyModule(input A,
                     input B,
                     output Q)
       // gate, wire and instance statements here
     endmodule
   ```

2. Gates define a basic logic function, a unique identifier for this gate, and the inputs to the gate

   ```verilog
     wire myAndGate;
     and(myAndGate, A, B); // equivalent to myAndGate = A & B
   ```

3. Instances of gates define a namespaced copy of a module and the connections between the parent module and the instance module

   ```verilog
     MyModule m1(.A(parentVar1), .B(parentVar2), .Q(parentVar3))
   ```

4. All programs must have a "main" module which is automatically instanced and serves as the entry point.


    a) The main module automatically includes a "clock" input.

    b) The inputs to the main module will be external "control" gates eg buttons/sensors

5. The main module should include a testbench section to define the value of the control gates at different time points

   ```verilog
    test begin
        #00 {a=0, b=0};
        #05 {a=0, b=1};
        #10 {a=1, b=0};
        #15 {a=1, b=1};
    end
   ```

## TODO

1. More sample code circuits - ~~onehotencoder~~, ~~7segmentencoder~~
2. ~~Support bitwise statements to generate the logic gates (eg Q = (A & B) | ~C)~~
3. Support truth tables to generate optimised logic gates
4. Support bit vectors
5. Improve gate tables with time slider to animate state
6. Improve schematic with time slider to animate state
7. Experiment with better schematic graph layouts, custom combo
8. More linting
9. Code hints, comment hotkey

## Acknowledgements

1. [LowLevelJavascript Digital Circuit Simulator](https://www.youtube.com/c/LowLevelJavaScript)
2. [Arcsecond.js](https://github.com/francisrstokes/arcsecond)
3. [Quasar.dev](https://quasar.dev/)
4. [G6 Graph](https://g6.antv.vision/en/)
5. [CodeMirror](https://codemirror.net/)
6. [ChartJS](https://www.chartjs.org/)
